 “Al-Hassan ibn al-‘Abbass al-Ma‘rufi wrote to Imam al-Rida (a.s.). “May Allah take my soul in service for your cause, explain to me the difference between the messengers, the prophets and the Imams.” The Imam said or wrote, “ The difference between the messengers, the prophets and the Imams is that a messenger is one to whom Jibril (Gabriel) comes. He sees Jibril and hears his speech and Jibril (the angel) brings him (Divine) revelation and sometimes he may see in his dream like the dream of Abraham (a.s.). A prophet is one who may hear the speech and may see the person or may not hear. The Imam is the one who hears the speech but does not see the person.”
adith. “Whatever Imam Ali (a.s.) has brought I follow them entirely and whatever he has forbidden I desist from them altogether. All that is true of the obedience to the Holy Prophet (s.a.) is true of the obedience to Imam Ali (a.s.) after the Holy Prophet (s.a.) but virtue belongs to Prophet Muhammad (s.a.). Those who would try to be ahead of Imam Ali (a.s.) would be considered as trying to be ahead of Prophet (s.a.). Those who would to show themselves as more virtuous than Imam Ali (a.s.) would be considered as trying to show themselves as more virtuous than the Holy Prophet (s.a.). Whoever would reject any of the small or great items of the guidance of Imam Ali (a.s.) he would be like considering things as similar (shirk) to Allah. The Holy Prophet (s.a.) is the gate through which people can go to Allah. He is the path that if chosen would lead to Allah, the Most Holy, the Most High. The same was true of Imam Ali (a.s.) after the Holy Prophet (s.a.). All such matters were true of the Imams (a.s.) one after the other. Allah, the Most Holy, the Most High, has made them the cornerstone of the earth so that its inhabitants would not be destroyed. They were the pillars of Islam and the connection in the path of guidance. No guide can be a guide without their guidance and one would go astray unless he would ignore the rights of these Imams (a.s.). They are the trustees of Allah over whatever knowledge, warning and excuses that have been revealed to them (from the heavens). They possess the doubtless Divine authority over those on earth. Whatever, (virtue and authority) is found in one of them is true of all of them and no one can reach such a stage without support from Allah. Amir al-Mu’minin Ali (a.s.) has said, “I am the supervisor for Allah over Paradise and Hell. No one would go either one without my supervision. I am the greatest criterion and the Imam for those after me the provider of relief for those before me. No one is permitted to be ahead of me except Ahmad (s.a.). I and he are on the same path except that he is called Ahmed (the most praiseworthy). I have been given six things. I have been the knowledge of deaths, that of the sufferings, that of the wills and the clear speeCh That I have been give the power to attack the enemy, the power subdue the adversary, that I am the owner of the staff and Maysam and the being that would speak to people.” (a reference to verse 82 of chapter 27 of Quran) “When the word about them comes true We shall make a creature appear to them on earth who will tell them that people had no faith in Our revelations.” (27:82)
llowing. “The Imams (a.s.) possess the position of the Messenger of Allah except that they are not prophets and the number of wives permissible for the Holy Prophet is not permissible for them. In the aspects other than these they possess the same positions as the Messenger of Allah did.”
g. “I asked abu ‘Abdallah (a.s.) about the Imams after the Holy Prophet (s.a.).” The Imam (a.s.) said, “Amir al-Mu’minin (Ali) (a.s.) was the Imam. Then al-Hassan (a.s.) was the Imam. Then al-Husayn (a.s.) was the Imam. Then Ali ibn Al-Husayn (a.s.) was the Imam. Then Muhammad ibn Ali (a.s.) was the Imam. One who would deny this would be as if he has denied the existence of Allah, the Most Holy, the Most High, and the truthfulness of Prophet Muhammad (s.a).” I asked, “may Allah take my soul in service for your cause, are you then the Imam? I repeated it three times.” The Imam said, “I only said it to you so that you will be of the witnesses before Allah, the Most Holy, the Most High, on His earth.”
g. “When the following verse of the Holy Quran was revealed, “On the day when We call every nation with their leaders, (Imams) . .” (17:71), people asked the Holy Prophet (s.a.), ‘Are you not the Imam of all the people altogether?’ The Holy Prophet (s.a.) said, “I am the Messenger of Allah to all the people but after me there will the Imams for the people from my family. They will rise among the people but they will be rejected. The leaders of the unbelievers and misguidance and their followers will do injustice to them. Those who support, love, follow and acknowledge their authority they are from me, with me and will meet me. Let it be known that those who would do injustice to the Imams (a.s) and reject them they are not from me and with me. I denounce them and all associations with them.”